feat(efc): add instances metho MTA-5653 (#4971)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/environmental-footprint/additional-content/instances-env-footprint.mdx

## Cross-IT equipment & stock calculation for Instances

The only part of the calculation that will differ from the basis is the [Cross-IT equipment & stock calculations](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/#cross-it-equipment-and-stock).

To calculate the electrical consumption of Instances, instead of using an exact measure of the power consumption, we use a proxy, e.g. CPU usage. The relationship between CPU usage and the power consumption of the underlying machine is non-linear, and characterised by a consumption profile.

A consumption profile is a formula that takes in a given workload (e.g. % CPU usage), and returns the estimated power consumption of the machine.

We use the [consumption profiles defined by Boavizta](https://doc.api.boavizta.org/Reference/routes/#consumption-profile-routes) for the CPUs used on Scaleway Instances.

Initially we base the calculation on a [theoretical value](https://doc.api.boavizta.org/Explanations/components/cpu/#usage-impacts) of 30% CPU usage.

### Calculation example

> In the example below we will calculate the manufacturing impact allocated to an Instance for a one-year usage period.

Author: in this case we would have to display the lifespan in hours also, no?

- **CPU** - Consider the share of vCPUs reserved compared to the total number of physical cores available.
- **RAM** - Consider the share of allocated RAM compared to the total RAM of the hypervisor.
- **Storage** - Consider the use of allocated storage compared to the total capacity of the hypervisor.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-allocation-rules-instances.webp" alt="" />

The value derived from this calculation will be used in every step of the calculation of the Instance's footprint. The variable is represented as `Resources_Used_VM` in the image above.

Refer to the table below to understand how the `Resources_Used_VM` is integrated into the calculation of each aspect of the total footprint calculation.

To obtain an accurate calculation of the Instance's footprint, we multiply the results in each step of the [basis calculation](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/), bar the Cross-IT equipment & stock calculations step, by the `Resources_Used_VM` ratio.

## Cross-IT equipment calculation for Instances

> The only part of the calculation that will differ from the basis is the [Cross-IT equipment & stock calculations](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/#cross-it-equipment-and-stock).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only part of the calculation that will differ from the basis is the [Customer Servers](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/#customer-servers).
```

To calculate the electrical consumption of Instances, instead of using an exact measure of the power consumption, we use a proxy, e.g. CPU usage. The relationship between CPU usage and the power consumption of the underlying machine is non-linear, and characterised by a consumption profile.

A consumption profile is a formula that takes in a given workload (e.g. % CPU usage), and returns the estimated power consumption of the machine.

We use the [consumption profiles defined by Boavizta](https://doc.api.boavizta.org/Reference/routes/#consumption-profile-routes) for the CPUs used on Scaleway Instances.

> Initially we base the calculation on a [theoretical value](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator-estimation/) of 30% CPU usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [Environmental Footprint Estimation](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator-estimation/), we base the calculation on a theoretical value of 30% CPU usage. On your [monthly report](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/environmental-footprint/how-to/track-monthly-footprint/), we use your real CPU consumption usage in order to provide you with the most reliable data possible.
```
